---
id: 4-working-with-intense-emotion-guided-meditation-1-of-2
title: 4. WORKING with INTENSE EMOTION - GUIDED MEDITATION (1 of 2))
hide_title: false
sidebar_label: 4. WORKING with INTENSE EMOTION - GUIDED MEDITATION (1 of 2))
---
OK let's do it, OK, OK, so take a moment to stretch up and settle in and focus for just a second on physical relaxation into the pasture.

OK, we're going to start by working in the fierce sad system.

So at any given.

Instance instant rather, they'll be exactly 1 of 4 states.

Just fear just sad both.

Or another.

We're going to ignore everything else. We're just going to penetrate that once system of affective so much thesia.

My wife talking makes sense.

Quillan till the last 2 words, I don't recommend kinda. Greco Roman for emotional type body sensation key. I love it. Though I know OK. So I'd like you to note fear sad fear an sad or none. One of those for it. You might fear Ansett or both. Let's use fear and said with a boolean.

And and operation so will get the four logically possible states of the fear sadness system.

Any questions about that OK.

Out loud.

Fear and sad.

Fear and sad.

Fear and sad.

Fear and sad.

Fear and sad.

Now go to mental labels thinking the labels rather than speaking OK.

Is it still mostly both at the same time?

Yes, take up.

Now we're going to work just with the fear.







I'm assuming that there is one or more areas of local intensity for the fear is that correct yes is it one or other several disconnected. There's probably one primary one that spreads out and it has little branches to it and then there's.

A little bit of a journey to a secondary one for the most part.

OK, so.

The primary ones spreads branches how broad the primary. One is right at the center of my chest like right in between my rib cage called broadly are the branches spread through the body.

It kind of comes down around to the side and in there, but it kind of spreads out a bit like the core center is kind of there in a kind of big odd shape and then there are ways in which I think it kind of reaches suddenly like subtle veins. Kind of going out around to the middle of my back, OK, excellent detection skill. I'm assuming that the.

Sutler ramifications are of less intensity? Absolutely. Here's what we're going to do.

We're going to just work with fear, the extremely not sad. I would like you to zoom out.

To the subtle ramifications focus on them, only every 10 minutes. Add I'm sorry every timing out fear OK go out to the sun ramifications and work towards perfect equanimity with those subtle sensations because there's subtle. It may be possible to have complete openness with them. Even though you can't do so with the local intensities that are at the epicenter of it. So we're going to use the zoom out option on the noting.

You're going to zoom out.

To cover the subtle Sprint and work towards perfect equanimity with that, and don't concern yourself with the local splash of the center at all just with the global ripple in a rhythm with the mental labels of fear.

Word fear any questions about that.

No, you want me, I'll just repeat it back. I'm zooming out. I'm going to keep noting fear with mental labels. But I'm going to when I note fear zoom out to the sutler tributaries, so to speak of the.

Of the experience of fear in my body, not tuning into the.

Main Grand Central Station part of it. It's perfect. And yes, it by mental label. I mean think, to myself fear to indicate that that's the flavor and then you zoom out and then I'm just going to have to do that on your own for a few minutes OK.



Able to do that pretty good.

Yeah.

Is there any hint?

Of flow in.

The global spread of the fear Oh yeah, it's pretty fluid. Yeah, it flows it, it's interesting.

I tend to be flowing in general, but when I worked with this, it would it first I got like little hits of not like I started feeling not other flavors, yeah, and then then a little ticklish. But if I just kind of kept with it those which is.

You know if I just kind of dismissed aid, with them dissipate so you're able to get the global component in the fear flavor to flow.

Yeah, OK.

Connect flow spread into the local intensity, so that you get a local global flow with the fear you know, I think I started to naturally start to do that and I think that's when the nausea started to. I think my body, but let's go for local global so that means you'll remember that there's my Standard formulation of the noting technique zoom in zoom out from the earth ways. So we're going to zoom both ways out to the perimeter.

To the mix and say shows there an ride the momentum of the flow. That's there and simultaneously zoom into the core intensity and see if you can get them to get that local splash global ripple.

While keeping the zooming so simultaneously, either zooming in and out into the core out to the perimeter and you're doing that.

Precisely to facilitate.

The spread of the global.

Flow into the local intensity.

To be awareness is moving in, and around at the same time, it got it. Slight you have a phrase that you came up with this sliding slide both ways. You're going to slide out with your awareness and let it facilitative global circulation of fear and you're going to slide in and let that.

A facilitate a local circulation of fear, so you get both the intense areas and the peripheral areas.

As a single fear flow.



