---
id: 1-working-with-intense-emotion-guided-stephanie-nash
title: 1. WORKING with INTENSE EMOTION guided Stephanie Nash
hide_title: false
sidebar_label: 1. WORKING with INTENSE EMOTION guided Stephanie Nash
---
OK, so you mentioned you wanted to work on some specific issues.



Anything you'd like to just tell me briefly about those issues before we start to work in terms of what it is, and what your goals would be in working on it? Yeah.

What I'm working with now is a strong?

Feel component that has.

You might call it touch. I sometimes called secondary field with that tension that comes around the field can lock into quite a dramatic degree when it first arose it seemed triggered by external event. But what I is a response and emotional response to an event. But I think it became clear that as I processed it that it kind of worked as a magnet to draw years.

To? Who knows what other stuff up with it that matched that.



Emotional frequency and then for awhile now several days. I've been working with it there. I let go of their having to be any talk image component an it's just a huge amount of Field Which.

I have techniques and ability to process but it's.

Quite a a significant event an I thought Ah time to call in the big guns. An I thought you could help me with this and maybe someone could benefit from it help. Let me ask some questions so I can make sure I understand the situation.

Ann you're having a lot of emotional type body sensation. Not all feel right. But I think that you're saying that you have.

A muscle tension reaction to that feel when it arises when I think there's a very, very strong field and because it is so non stop.

An intense that the body just starts to tighten around it in a way that I'm working not only with the field. But I have to kind of work with the tightening that comes around it. And so I might work with one then work with the other, but there's no question the core. It's feel, and everything else is just because it bends so intense for so long. The bodies just starting to and I'm literally now experiencing physiological.

Things in the body just simply from that tightening around the field does that make sense and so you want to work with this sensory phenomenon. The underlying emotional sensations or feel as we would put it in the technical vocabulary body sensation. That seems emotional and then there's a kind of physical response in the form of muscle tension an that muscle tension. Some People consider that to be a fit purely physical sensation.

But because it's so linked with the emotions. Some People consider it to be and it to be in and of itself. An emotional sensation that we can parse it. Either way to bring on what's natural for that person.

I have a few other questions to ask you it sounds to me like you've already been working with it in the way that I would be that I would consider optimal by that. I mean that you're sometimes focusing on the tension reaction, sometimes focusing on the underlying feel itself, which is the general strategy of dividing conquer so and I've been I've been using a lot of.

Flow is probably where my natural strength is and so and I can work with flow and almost immediately have some kind of response to that of going into it, but then it's re arises in Rican deal. so I thought OK. I've gotta maybe more deeply or maybe you can just help me well probably the strategies that you are using?

Are already optimal but that's my guess?

It's simply a matter of continuing with them.

But let's just do some interactive stuff and we'll see what comes up. I'm not sure that there's actually anything new to add content wise it may just be a numbers game of continuing what you're now doing but like I say, Let's see what happens do you have a couple more questions? Does the tension reaction that you're referring to?

Does that?

Tend to come up.

In a pronounced pattern.

In real time or is it more of an going sort of situation. By that I mean, is there a clear sense of they'll be an eruption of field and then there's a tension eruption of fuel. Then there's attention or is it that attention is sort of there.

In a fairly on going way or does it tend to fluctuate moment by moment with the fluctuations in the feel a little bit of the second a little bit of 3rd that the field is pretty continuous pretty intense. But there is a rising and falling depending on if I'm able to give it.

You know if I'm able to stop and go into it, sometimes it might multiplying effect times 10 and become quite.

More than what you wanted to deal with that. I'm assuming that's a part of the process. Sometimes my work with it will help it flow. The tension does not correspond directly to the field and I've in what I'm calling the tension is just from the feel having been so consistent. There's a kind of uh not breathing in a tensing in its creating stuff in the back end.

So it's not really a moment by moment tensing.

Physical muscle tensing around emotional body sensation. It's more, the result that the emotional body. Sensations have been ongoing for so long that you're getting this secondary sensation. Yes, and there may be a settle other than from what I'm describing the thing that I'm aware of is then literally parts of my body start to hurt and I know it's just from the bot just getting tired. The body kind of getting tired from working with the school.

Now let me ask some other questions.

The.

You talk about the field, breaking up into flow and I'm assuming that happens with some consistency. You know whenever I focus in on it. Yes, that that's about the tension reaction does it break up in the flow?

If I'm focusing twords that yes, yes that can break up Ken Break up into flow, as well. They all do kind of.

Like a rubber band snap back into place a lot. It just feels like. There's just been a momentum of break up into float, but then they can re solidify so you can actually have the tension.

And the feel both turn into flow with your practice can you have you attempted to do that during?

Practice in motion like walking minute practice is pretty much yes, I I have to otherwise I wouldn't be able to function. I wouldn't be doing this today, if I wasn't so you can already get them both to dissolve into flow, which is.

Pretty but when I'm doing an action In other words, If I'm stopping and all of my awareness is going into that I can go total flow. But when I have to also do this activity or talk to this person or do something like that. All of my attention isn't on it, so there's some congealing. All you know, I can do enough flow to function, but I'm I'm not you know floating on clouds.

All the way through I do have periods where something like there's certain activities that help the flow. If I'm when I'm doing a laughing meditation or or when I'm facilitating somebody.

I literally don't.

It pretty much all goes flow during certain activities. But the rest of the time. It's having to kind of keep some awareness there in somewhere in his hair just to kind of function.

