---
id: 2-working-with-intense-emotion-works-with-stephanie-nash
title: 2.  WORKING with INTENSE EMOTION works with Stephanie Nash
hide_title: false
sidebar_label: 2.  WORKING with INTENSE EMOTION works with Stephanie Nash
---
Couple more questions.

Is the?



Which is?

The source of the greatest distress is it the feel or the tension real feel absolutely so you're not so concerned with dealing with the tension well. That'll go when the field so the core issue is intensity of activation of emotional body sensation absolutely OK. That helps me hone in a little bit more on what are?



Target right have you attempted?

Well, I should say as you know a basic principle in mindfulness is divide and conquer case in point you have divided this experience into OK. There's the emotional body sensations. That's one component. Then there's the muscle reactions to those at the second component, so that's already a divide and conquer and that is already given you some relief that the average person wouldn't experience under comparable circumstances.

As you remember a second axiom as if that, if divide and conquer doesn't work.

Remember, what I always say subdivide until you do conquered in this case have you attempted to break the feel into specific flavors. Anger fear sadness In other words? Have you applied the noting feeling floating feeling flavor technique to this intense arising? Yes, I have? what I have found to be more helpful.

Is the investigating?

Where exactly I'm feeling what OK it's a clinching here? What are the boundaries? Is there more pressure in? Is it pushing out you know? am I coming up with a moron kind of investigating it without necessarily putting a label of the quality that that's been a little more successful in helping me go through it, the but I could tell you the quality the subdivide principle can be applied with regards to either the.

Quality right which is the noting field flavors so that gives you the spectrum anger fear sadness interest. What have you. But the subdivide principle can also be applied to the spatial aspect of things. So then let's just let it go just could happen during a real session, so divide so you can subdivide into.

Flavors but you can also subdivide into locations. So it's an application of the same principle. So you're saying that sub dividing it by individual body locations has turned out to be more productive your location and quality.

Of sensation you mean so it's a little. Both yes, I'm over an location getting specific about. Those yeah, so you've already made the major thing that I would first try because you've internalised the algorithms and you say that that does help do you note the location like with the location word face now haven't been doing that out loud?

Been tracking the location and then it sounds like you're staying up for a little. While in a location naming my awareness around inside of inventory kind of what it's like when I'm inside of it. It's so much easier than when I'm outside of it.

For me well that.

Once again sounds like pretty optimal strategy.

Tell me what are the range of flavors involved it's primarily fear flavor primarily to a almost terror panic?

Play sphere an intense fear and there's absolutely sadness. There's absolutely, yeah, is there any reason for it or is it just erupting in the box. I have like? I said I think there was an event or 2 that triggered it on the outside, but this was out of proportion of that and I saw that and as I kind of worked with it, I found that the particular story the surface story.

I see I even knew is silly, but as as I let go of their needing to be a story. I kind of just went into this whole huge feel an as I've gone down in layers. I'm seeing kind of flickers of like Oh fear of annihilation that I'll be killed in any moment. There's not a logical right in other ways into this not really coming from the object of external. I think it taped. I think whatever this was on the outside hula fear tapped.

Everything like a magnet, I think it drew everything up that resonated at that frequency and it's just kind of really throw me at how huge it is an or they say in Ohio huge use was a huge but really it's taken all my technique or skill to be functioning, so we're having a huge upwelling of.

Uh.

Fear potential an sounds like 7 and are they equally strong. The fear in the sadness.

I'd say the fear is probably it's probably like.

The fear is the cake in the sadness is icing that's also going down through the cake food analogy actually that's probably a pretty accurate description because that's what happens they tangle and interact.

And you say very little mental image or internal talk accompanying this first. There was a lot. But as I go down. It's almost pure body? How 'bout very subtle image or talk activation set liminal that balance of something subliminal stuff is where that Annihilation came up that is starting to suggest some strategies. Let me ask you.

Further I say annihilation, but the thing that comes up with big killed like like anybody at any moment could kill you know, an ******* but it's fear and this is good. You've heard me a million times talk about how before we break through. These things they need to become my phrases continuous and ubiquitous.

Continuous means unbroken in time ubiquitous means everywhere in the body.

And we have to going toys, if that's happening, yeah, then a process of.

Permanent purification is happening so people of course.



Are averse to the notion of letting something like fear sadness become continuous through time an Omni directional in the body ubiquitous through the body. But at that Penny Wise and pound foolish because being unwilling to pass through that temporarily keeps them. Always sort of Damocles of fear hanging over their head and likewise with the other negatives like sadness anger and so forth so.

You have to reach a point where it's completely irrational completely over the Top intense.

Doesn't stop in time and is in every cubic centimeter of your body if not of the known universe?

You know In other words, perceived as larger than the body.

And and say OK I would allow this to go on forever.

It's at that point that you're getting optimal catharsis in the sense of cleaning out.

So what it's taking awhile but I'm getting a clearer hearing you say that makes me feel better.

You know, I mean, not I still work, but you know it's kind of just helpful to have somebody say, 'cause I've just been working on it by myself without talking when they want in that it's really helpful to hear it. But just helpful to hear that you know, yeah, I would say that this. This is the stage before People become free.

