---
id: 3-working-with-intense-emotions-guides-stephanie-nash
title: 3.  WORKING with INTENSE EMOTIONS guides Stephanie Nash
hide_title: false
sidebar_label: 3.  WORKING with INTENSE EMOTIONS guides Stephanie Nash
---
Sorry it's interesting too because when I had a physical issue a year ago, where I had excruciating pain in my body? What happened was it felt like my skin all over my body was burned with singeing very hot and the neurologist. Everybody, said it was probably in response to the pain. They couldn't. They said it's just your bodies into an alarm alert mode. That's getting activated by this fear so like I have that In addition, so you talk about hot.

You know, I've got that on the outside. This kind of thing in that that will definitely that directly corresponds with the intensity of the field, OK, so is that that's enough isn't it?

That's a lot to work with, but actually I need a little more information do you think that it's?

That is interacting with subtle levels of talk or image.

Very very slow why do you mean interacting by that I mean that fear?

And sadness might be intensified by.

At subtle subliminal activations of visual or auditory thinking.

What I think is happening and this is just having been working with it now for awhile? I think it's like if there's a deck of cards. That's all the images and thoughts that we have in a pool that one hit something and it went down and if there were like little shavings of metal. I'm sorry. I went back away from deck of cards will shaving all of those came up in each one of those is an image or it could be image or talks stuff, but it's just like in so you might get little flicks like of popcorn, but it might not be enough.

To go Oh yes, that's what that's when I was fat exactly what I mean? When that comes up. It can poke it can it can it can kind of like add a little of a little bit of a wood shaving to the fire, but it's like the feel called that up and then that might poke in the feel a little bit. But if I stay with the field. They just kind of hang out so the answer to the question is yes, there is interaction with subtle.

Her which OK is significant, yeah, and also characteristic of Catharsis.

Although it may primarily come up as body feel flavors. Subliminal auditory and visual thinking often enters into the cache salt, especially the visual.

Because People don't usually hear hell they usually see how.

Although in theory, you can hear it, too, but image spaces where the monsters are.

That might be linked to all of this so that gives me some of the more information that I need OK now believe it or not yet more questions. OK, we go as well. We gotta see what's really going on and I don't just doing your house? Yeah, Well, you are very warehouse. MD is called differential answer my huge diagnostic skills.

OK, so.

The let's see here.

Have you ever had the experience of having strong fear.

That was pervasive through the body, so dissolve into flow that it no longer cost you suffering.

Yes.

How about sadness?

He had ever done, OK, so then you've already done what we're going to be working towards where you going to be working towards that experience.

Yet again because it's a matter of I mean basically.

What let's see 1234 maybe there's 4 kinds of human beings? I mean there's a lot of ways to classify humans right.

But maybe one way to classify all human beings is.

There's most human beings.

Who have never had the experience of physical pain?

Flowing so completely that.

It turned into a flavor of catharsis rather than a flavor of suffering. Most humans have never had that experience so that's most humans. Then there are the humans that have at least had that experience once.

OK.

Uh.

Then there are the humans that have had that same experience, but with regards to rage terror and or grief.

That's a whole other thing then physical pain.

In terms of what it's like when that breaks up so we've determined and I think harder.

Incomparably, harder because pain is just pain.

Are the emotional sensations have been honed by evolution to grip us and control us and destroy us. They've been honed by evolution for that task that's what the hell is hell is.

Rage terror grief shame flavors that have become so activated that they are able to.

Convince you

That not only will this be all you ever experience from now on there actually able to convince you that you never experienced anything else.

There have that much distorting power, so that it seems like eternal in both directions.

That would be hell.

Purgatory is when.

You've experienced those sensations enough that they can't cause that illusion anymore. But they're still there and you're working with them.

And then

The interface the threshold between purgatory and Heaven is when it turns into flow.

We've been talking about so believe it or not one other question besides feared sadness.

Are there hints of any other flavors in there?

Like anger or shame, yeah, I actually looked specifically for them. I think the shame flavor.

Can like if something happens in the extra word that embarrasses me? I feel that shame and that can trigger all this.

You know it's irrational it's irrational to the present Bush told machine flavor or is it pretty much we're dealing with.

Sad and had if we call fear had had had for alliteration, so I could use it. I know Nick Airport.

'Cause there's mad sad glad and had your changing my feel favors here OK don't come back that will get back to health health. Here's what's interesting you know that heat. I talked about in the body. It shares territory with shame and embarrassment in terms of the flush and so it can trigger it.

So they all kind of interlinked in that way. It's all information that I need to do the guidance.

And I think I have enough.

