---
id: 5-working-with-intense-emotion-guided-meditation-2-of-2
title: 5. WORKING with INTENSE EMOTION - GUIDED MEDITATION  (2 of 2)
hide_title: false
sidebar_label: 5. WORKING with INTENSE EMOTION - GUIDED MEDITATION  (2 of 2)
---


And we get a little sense of that.

Oh yeah, so that's

That's a catharsis of releasing of fear it creates this kind of center of this.

It's kind of a deep joy that kind of comes up the center, but then I get really hot, yeah, let the joy be there, then the Heat. Be there that these are all really actual stupid catharsis, OK and if the Heat produces more fear than just dissipate that in the fear except that we're going to let go of the fear now OK.

And don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure out what we're going to do same procedures start with the periphery of the sadness flavor work with that.

See.

If it's amenable through zoom out process to an experience of a global flow.

In the sadness.

If that's feasable do that and then.

Go in and look for the local flow in the epicenter and you're going to get a local global flow in the sadness if if indeed that's

Sort of doable at this time, I'd like to explore that do ability of that.

With regards to sadness just give it now.

Sometime.



Get a little hint of that, yeah since the sadness doesn't have the same vein network of spread. I just kind of instead of since I didn't quite have this subtle area. I just want around the boundaries of that's exactly correct that corresponds to the subtle. It's just less widespread that was made the boundary soft and then treated that lights right? That's what I would have had so you're able to get a little sense of that, yeah, OK good? Yeah.

Now.

I'm going to have you.

Do a fairly intricate concentration.

Where are you going to attempt to experience simultaneous?

Lee.

A kind of River of fear.

And a kind of River of sad.

That flow through each other.

Interpenetrating without interfering.

So it's almost like you say that again Oh yeah right?

There's the sadness flavor and it's a sort of like.

Giant liquid drop that sort of expanding and contracting right right and there's the fear flavor and it's a giant liquid drop doing the same ascential dance right now, you know how.

Like in ghost movie.

You see that, like the ghost can walk through the wall right right goes passes through the wall. The wall gives no resistance. Now imagine you didn't have a ghost in the wall, but you had 2 ghosts.

And they were both.

Doing their own thing.

But they could pass through each other without disturbing each other.

When they occupied the same place at the same time, so you can have these 2 ghostly waves.

One flavored fear the other flavors sad and there, so did dancing except in unlike physical dancers. They parts of them even all of them can occupy the same place.

Uh so they?

They're constantly waving and the waves pass through each other without disturbing each other without developing pressure areas where they would clash does this metaphor makes sense. Yeah.

Have you attempted to do this with the fear and sad not in this not this round. This may be the middle part of the missing piece because you could get them individually default. But then the next step is collectively default because if they both flow at the same time, interpenetrating wherever they need to without interfering then.

They won't multiply together into over well.

And that so the ability to have more than one flavor.

And to separate the flavors have all the flavors flow and then have the flow fields. Interpenetrate without interference is a sequence that I take People through when they're going through big challenges that are.

That are Poly Chromatic.

IMO the Poly Chromatic.

Body distress, meaning a lot of different colors in the body then we need to train. The colors to flow through each other and Interestingly dance. It's an interesting.

Intimacy that women.

It's like they're dancing through each other as well as with each other and to the extent that they're both flowing.

You'll get an even more powerful flavor purification and and hopefully a significantly deeper sense of relief.





Cape Cod House had coming.

Uh.

OK.

Bread in Watson.

When I when I allow them both to share the same space and not and I'm recognizing how I've been keeping them separate and keeping the line between them. And when I allow them to just kind of do that. The kind of joy. I talked about before with the fear it's very intense version of that and then it kind of seems to ignite this kind of PT like.

Energee up the body and it gets very hot, but it's getting it's enrapture riff yourself. Rather counter intuitive facial expression proves it? Yeah.

