---
id: 6-working-with-intense-emotions-discussion-alternative-strategies
title: 6. WORKING with INTENSE EMOTIONS  - Discussion & Alternative Strategies
hide_title: false
sidebar_label: 6. WORKING with INTENSE EMOTIONS  - Discussion & Alternative Strategies
---
And I'm recognizing how I've been keeping them separate and keeping the line between them in an when I allow them to just kind of do that kind of joy. I talked about before with the fear it's very intense version of that and then it kind of seems to ignite this kind of PT like enerji up the body and it gets very hot, but it's getting it's riff yourself.

Let's say is rather counter intuitive facial expression proves it. Yeah, it's really interesting because, as it does, I find myself wanting to comment on it, and I'll go up and talk a minute and then and then it loses it a little bit, yeah, and you have to come out to be done purely in them, yeah, comments and then it does trigger some.

Little chocolates to go visit there all about it in your use of practice allowed you to say that and not sort of go down that yeah well. Pressly's motivation to kind of stay with this, it's kind.

It's it's intrinsically rewarding no next step. See if you can have the fear in the sadness.

Dancing with, and through each other with your eyes open.

And you may find D focusing the eyes initially.

Helpful.

So we can maintain it somewhat into more ordinary experience.

It's interesting when I am.

'Cause I kind of go in and out here as I do it and I'm going to talk all keeping my eyes open, but

I'm getting to where I'm horning in on the one specific place in the body. They both share in a powerful way an if I can just kind of keep track of flow there, letting it be, whether it's red or blue you know.

It.

It kind of helps maintain it with my eyes open.

Now see if you can keep some contact with that.

Even after we make some eye contact.

It may be a little trick here, but

Up this.

Is what we just did here is probably one of the missing pieces in the?

Of the solution to the situation that you described an not sure it's all of the missing pieces. I've got a few other ideas. Besides this, but I think for this is a good for this session one. One Epiphany is we have price of admission. I leave that money on the table. The you haven't done this before. This theme well, I've never.

Inter digitation was a word, You used to use and it's so interesting as soon as you guided me on this, I thought.

Oneguide somebody else in this.

I'll guide somebody else in this but I didn't think of it for me. I was just holding remember to do this. You remember to get the flavors to do that. I have other People didn't remember that you could do it for yourself. I was just all my circuits were just so full. I guess or would you know that goes to a very general principle in the way I set up my approach to meditation which is that the assumption is that?

When People face real challenges.

Even People without a background in practice if you interactively guide them will be able to have pretty dramatic experiences pretty consistently dramatic positive experiences. It is also been my experience that People that are quite good at meditation when they're faced with realize life challenges can easily forget.

But all you need is somebody to do this right. Oh yeah, I knew how to do that, yeah, and then now you're set. You know this is one session. We don't need 20 years of therapy here. It's OK now. You don't know what to do so. I think that's excellent, but I will for subsequent sessions.

Remind me that I had some other ideas of why can actually just tell me now and they're like nicely play it and go member. You gotta finish it so the other thing is that OK one missing piece was well. The 2 flavors have to simultaneously flow and through each other another possible missing piece.

Is that you're getting significant interaction with subliminal thinking?

Right and you might want to look in that direction and the way you look in that direction. what I was going to have you work through work with is a special exercise that with all the years we've done. I'm not sure we've ever done. This one, but I'll ask you have. We ever done, noting feel sources. What that means is I have. You note if there's No Fear. You say No Fear if there is fear but it's not triggered by anything you're aware of you say just?

Fear and then you specify if the fear has been triggered by fear from image fear from talk fear from sound feel from site or fear from touch. Now we have an Evernote noted fear. I call that noting field sources and field can be generic or specific that that was the next thing I had in the Hopper to try after this, because what may be happening is that you're getting significant triggering.

From from other senses that are activating the fear in real time and usually what you know how I always say.

OK, what is science in a nutshell? How much of what? When an where interacting in what ways and changing at what rates typically. I emphasize the what the where the rates of change, but some of the special techniques are designed to elucidate the interactions specifically what's triggering Watt and I find that when People are going through significant?

Intractable fear experiences or emotion in general, but especially fear literally a few minutes of noting.

What is triggering that fear in terms of broadly of the broad sensory categories so we can now detect No Fear fear but not a triggered by anything OK? Don't fear fear fear from image fear from talk and especially subtle image and subtle to the subliminal stuff, the way you know that's happening is you get a tug twords image space or a Tord stock space.

No content awareness at all but the next instant. There's a spike in the fear and the body now. You know that the sun. Quite aware of having that yeah, the subconscious well. It turns out if you ask yourself if you constrain yourself in real time to note did it come from image talk sight sound or the physicality of the body 'cause. It's gotta be one of those one of those, 5 right that.

Keeping track of the of the whole system somehow that vastly reduces the over well.

So when you're doing that, you're zooming out for example of in for me. I'm less aware. I can tell when I've gone to image space. But I'm not seeing tangible image at this time and I'm a little bit of a sign of subliminal and hence highly significant activity. An I'm aware that with talking with talk. I can hear a little more of a rumble but I still can't so am I equally.

Awareness equally distributed between image and talk are you don't have to actually worry about how to distribute your awareness OK because most People discover they know as soon as you give them.

